
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
# Install using *nix packages

:warning: **SignalFx Smart Agent is deprecated. For details, see the [Deprecation Notice](./smartagent-deprecation-notice.md)** :warning:

Install the SignalFx Smart Agent using either a Debian or RPM package,
and then verify that the SignalFx Smart Agent is working.

## Install the SignalFx Smart Agent using a Debian package

This section describes how to install the Smart Agent on hosts that
run Linux distributions based on Debian.

### Prerequisites for Debian

* *nix distribution that's based on Debian or supports Debian packages
* Kernel version 3.2 or higher
* cap_dac_read_search and cap_sys_ptrace capabilities
* APT or similar package tools. These instructions show you how to install the package using `apt-get`.
* Internet access. If necessary, set up proxies to allow your package tools to access the Internet.
* Terminal or a similar command-line interface application
* Permission to run `curl` and `sudo`

### Install the SignalFx Smart Agent with Debian

1. Remove collector services such as `collectd`.

2. Download the GNU Privacy Guard (**GnuPG**) security key for the Debian package
   by running the following command:

   ```
   curl -sSL https://splunk.jfrog.io/splunk/signalfx-agent-deb/splunk-B3CD4420.gpg > /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/splunk.gpg
   ```

3. Add an entry for the SignalFx Smart Agent package to Debian by running the following command:

   ```
   echo 'deb https://splunk.jfrog.io/splunk/signalfx-agent-deb release main' > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/signalfx-agent.list
   ```

4. Update the Debian package lists with the SignalFx Smart Agent package information
   by running the following command:

   ```
   apt-get update
   ```

5. Install the Agent by running the following command:

   ```
   apt-get install -y signalfx-agent
   ```

### Configure Debian installation

Set the Smart Agent configuration options in the configuration YAML file. To learn more,
see [Agent Configuration](config-schema.md).

### Verify Debian installation

See [Verify the Smart Agent](#verify-the-smart-agent).

## Install using RPM

This section describes how to install the Smart Agent on hosts that
run Linux and use the RPM package manager.

### Prerequisites for RPM

* *nix distribution that supports RPM, such as CentOS or Oracle Linux
* Kernel version 3.2 or higher
* cap_dac_read_search and cap_sys_ptrace capabilities
* `yum` or similar package tools. These instructions show you how to install the package using `yum`.
* Write access to `/etc/yum.repos.d/`
* Internet access. If necessary, set up proxies to allow your package tools to access the Internet.
* Terminal or a similar command-line interface application

### Install with RPM

1. Remove collector services such as `collectd`.

2. In the `/etc/yum.repos.d/` directory, edit a new file named signalfx-agent.repo.
3. Add these lines to the file:

   ```
   [signalfx-agent]
   name=SignalFx Agent Repository
   baseurl=https://splunk.jfrog.io/splunk/signalfx-agent-rpm/release
   gpgcheck=1
   gpgkey=https://splunk.jfrog.io/splunk/signalfx-agent-rpm/splunk-B3CD4420.pub
   enabled=1
   ```

4. Run the following command:

   ```
   yum install -y signalfx-agent
   ```

### Configure RPM installation

Set the Smart Agent configuration options in the configuration YAML file. To learn more,
see [Agent Configuration](config-schema.md).

### Verify RPM install

See [Verify the Smart Agent](#verify-the-smart-agent).

## Verify the Smart Agent

For Debian or RPM, verify that your installation and configuration are working.

* For infrastructure monitoring, perform these steps:
  1. In SignalFx, open the **Infrastructure** built-in dashboard.
  2. In the override bar, select **Choose a host**.
  3. Select one of your hosts from the dropdown.

  The charts display metrics from your infrastructure.

  To learn more, see [Built-In Dashboards and Charts](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/data-visualization/dashboards/built-in-dashboards.html).

* For Kubernetes monitoring, perform these steps:
  1. In SignalFx, from the main menu select **Infrastructure** > **Kubernetes Navigator** > **Cluster map**.
  2. In the cluster display, find the cluster you installed.
  3. Click the magnification icon to view the nodes in the cluster.

  The detail pane displays details of your cluster and nodes.

  To learn more, see [Getting Around the Kubernetes Navigator](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/infrastructure/monitor/k8s.html).

* For SignalFx Microservice APM monitoring, learn how to install, configure, and verify the SignalFx Smart Agent for Microservices APM (**µAPM**). See
  [Get started with SignalFx µAPM](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/apm/intro-to-apm.html#nav-Introduction-to-Splunk-APM).

### Uninstall the Smart Agent

#### Debian

To uninstall the Smart Agent on Debian-based distributions, run the following
command:

```sh
sudo dpkg --remove signalfx-agent
```

**Note:** Configuration files may persist in `/etc/signalfx`.

#### RPM

To uninstall the Smart Agent on RPM-based distributions, run the following
command:

```sh
sudo rpm -e signalfx-agent
```

**Note:** Configuration files may persist in `/etc/signalfx`.
