
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
# Install using configuration management

:warning: **SignalFx Smart Agent is deprecated. For details, see the [Deprecation Notice](./smartagent-deprecation-notice.md)** :warning:

Install the SignalFx Smart Agent using one of the following configuration management
packages:

| Package | See this section                                                                                |
|:--------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Ansible | [Install the Smart Agent using an Ansible role](#install-the-smart-agent-using-an-ansible-role) |
| Chef    | [Install the Smart Agent using a Chef cookbook](#install-the-smart-agent-using-a-chef-cookbook) |
| Docker  | [Install the Smart Agent using a Docker image](#install-the-smart-agent-using-a-docker-image)   |
| Puppet  | [Install the Smart Agent using a Puppet module](#install-the-smart-agent-using-a-puppet-module) |
| Salt    | [Install the Smart Agent using a Salt formula](#install-the-smart-agent-using-a-salt-formula)   |

## Prerequisites

### Prerequisites for all platforms

* Your SignalFx realm. See [Realms](../../../_sidebars-and-includes/smart-agent-realm-note.html).
* A SignalFx access token. See [Smart Agent Access Token](../../../_sidebars-and-includes/smart-agent-access-token.html).

### *nix prerequisites

* Kernel version 2.6.32 or higher
* cap_dac_read_search and cap_sys_ptrace capabilities
* Terminal or a similar command-line interface application

### Windows prerequisites

- Windows 8 or higher
- Windows PowerShell access
- Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler for Python

## Install the Smart Agent using an Ansible role

You can use an Ansible role for installing the Smart Agent:

The main role site is the GitHub repo [SignalFx Agent Ansible Role](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/main/deployments/ansible).

To install the role from GitHub:

1. Clone the repo to your controller.
2. Add the `signalfx-agent` directory path to the `roles_path` property in your ansible.cfg file.

   You can also get the role from Ansible Galaxy. To install the role from Galaxy, run the following command:

   ```
   ansible-galaxy install signalfx.smart_agent
   ```

### Configure the Smart Agent for Ansible

The Smart Agent Ansible role uses the following variables:

* `sfx_agent_config`: A mapping that Ansible converts to the Smart Agent configuration YAML file.
  See [Agent Configuration](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/agent/config-schema.html)
  for a full list of acceptable options and their default values. In this mapping, replace
  `<access_token>` with the access token value you obtained previously, as described in the
  section [Prerequisites for all platforms](#prerequisites-for-all-platforms).
  All other properties are optional.

  For example, this mapping monitors basic host-level components:

  ```
  sfx_agent_config:
    signalFxAccessToken: <access_token>  # Required
    monitors:
      - type: cpu
      - type: filesystems
      - type: disk-io
      - type: net-io
      - type: load
      - type: memory
      - type: vmem
      - type: host-metadata
      - type: processlist
  ```

   Keep your mapping in a custom file in your target remote host's `group_vars` or `host_vars` directory,
   or pass it to Ansible using the `-e @<path_to_file>` ansible-playbook extra vars option for a global configuration.

* `sfx_config_file_path`: The destination path for the Smart Agent configuration file generated from the `sfx_agent_config` mapping.
  The default path is /etc/signalfx/agent.yaml.
* `sfx_repo_base_url`: The URL for the SignalFx Smart Agent repository. The default is `https://splunk.jfrog.io/splunk`.
* `sfx_package_stage`: The module version to use: `release`, `beta`, or `test`. The default is `release`.
* `sfx_version`: Desired agent version, specified as `<agent version>-<package revision>`. For example,
  `3.0.1-1` is the first package revision that contains the agent version 3.0.1.
  Releases with package revision greater than 1 contain changes to some aspect of the packaging scripts, such as the `init` scripts, but
  contain the same agent bundle, which defaults to `latest`.
* `sfx_service_user`, `sfx_service_group`: Set the user and group for the `signalfx-agent` service.
  They're created if they don't exist. This property is available only in agent package version 5.1.0 or higher.
  The default value for both properties is `signalfx-agent`.

After deploying the signalfx-agent role, Ansible manages the `signalfx-agent` service
using the Ansible core service module. This module automatically determines the
host's init system for starting and stopping the `signalfx-agent` service, with a preference for `systemd` (`systemctl`).

To learn more about the Smart Agent configuration options,
see the [Agent Configuration](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/config-schema.md).

### Install the Smart Agent with Ansible

After you install the Ansible role, use Ansible to install the Smart Agent to your hosts.

### Verify your Ansible installation

See [Verify the Smart Agent](#verify-the-smart-agent).


## Install the Smart Agent using a Chef cookbook

Before you install, configure a Smart Agent Chef cookbook.

### Configure the Smart Agent for Chef

1. Download the Smart Agent Chef cookbook from one of these sites:

   - [GitHub Smart Agent Chef Cookbook](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/main/deployments/chef#signalfx-agent-cookbook)
   - [Chef Supermarket Smart Agent Cookbook](https://supermarket.chef.io/cookbooks/signalfx_agent)

   **NOTE:**
   SignalFx provides Chef support for SLES and openSUSE starting with
   cookbook versions 0.3.0 and higher and agent versions 4.7.7 and
   higher.

2. Include the `signalfx_agent::default` recipe. Set the `node['signalfx_agent']['agent_version']`
   attribute to the latest Smart Agent version listed on the
   [SignalFx Smart Agent releases page](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/releases).

3. In the recipe, update the following attributes to match your system's configuration:

   * Required: `node['signalfx_agent']['conf']`: The Smart Agent configuration.
     This attribute has the following options:

     - Required: `node['signalfx-agent']['conf'].signalFxAccessToken`: SignalFx API access token. Replace
       `<access_token>` with the access token value you obtained previously, as described in the section
       [Prerequisites for all platforms](#prerequisites-for-all-platforms).

     - Optional. `node['signalfx_agent']['conf'].monitors`: Array of monitor specification key-value pairs.
       The following example shows you a basic `node['signalfx-agent']['conf']`
       value that requests monitors for host-level components:

       ```
        node['signalfx_agent']['conf'] = {
          signalFxAccessToken: "<access_token>",
          monitors: [
            {type: "cpu"},
            {type: "filesystems"},
            {type: "disk-io"},
            {type: "net-io"},
            {type: "load"},
            {type: "memory"},
            {type: "vmem"}
            {type: "host-metadata"},
            {type: "processlist"},
          ]
        }
       ```

   * Required: `node['signalfx_agent']['conf_file_path']`: File name where Chef should put the agent configuration.
     - For Linux, the default is /etc/signalfx/agent.yaml.
     - For Windows, the default is \ProgramData\SignalFxAgent\agent.yaml.
   * Required: `node['signalfx_agent']['agent_version']`: The agent release version, in n.n.n format. Use the
     Smart Agent release version without the "v" prefix.
   * Required: `node['signalfx_agent']['package_stage']`: The recipe type to use: `release`, `beta`, or `test`.
     Test releases are unsigned.
   * Required: `node['signalfx_agent']['user'] and node['signalfx_agent']['group']`:

     For Linux and Agent version 5.1.0 or higher: These attributes specify the user and group used to
     run the `signalfx-agent` service. They're created if they don't already exist.
     The default value for both is `signalfx-agent`.
   * Optional: `node['signalfx_agent']['package_version']`: The agent package version.
     - For systems that use Debian or RPM, the default is 1 less than the value of `$agent_version`.
     - For Windows, the default is `$agent_version`.

To see all of the Smart Agent configuration options,
refer to [Agent Configuration](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/config-schema.md).

### Install the Smart Agent with Chef

After you add the Smart Agent recipe, use Chef to install the Smart Agent to your hosts.

### Verify your Chef installation

See [Verify the Smart Agent](#verify-the-smart-agent).

## Install the Smart Agent using a Docker image

SignalFx hosts a Smart Agent Docker image at
[https://quay.io/signalfx/signalfx-agent](https://quay.io/signalfx/signalfx-agent).
This image is tagged with the same values as the Smart Agent itself. For example, to get version 5.1.6 of the Smart Agent,
download the Docker image with the tag 5.1.6.

Install using the Docker image if you're using Docker without Kubernetes. To install the Smart Agent to Docker containers
running Kubernetes:

* If you use Helm, see [Install using Helm](agent-k8s-install-helm.md)
* If you use kubectl, see [Install using kubectl](agent-k8s-install-kubectl.md).

### Configure the Smart Agent for Docker

To configure the Docker image for the Smart Agent, perform these steps:

1. In the container for the Smart Agent, set the following environment variables:
   - `SFX_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The Access token value you obtained in [Prerequisites for all platforms](#prerequisites-for-all-platforms).
   - `SFX_API_URL`: The SignalFx API server URL. This value has the
     `https://api.<realm>.signalfx.com` syntax. Replace `<realm>` with the realm value you obtained in
     [Prerequisites for all platforms](#prerequisites-for-all-platforms).
   - `SFX_INGEST_URL`: SignalFx ingest URL. Set this URL if you're using the SignalFx Smart Gateway or a different target for
     datapoints and events.
2. In the agent configuration agent.yaml file that's downloaded with the Docker image,
   update any incorrect property values to match your system.
3. In agent.yaml, add additional properties such as monitors and observers. To learn
   more about all the available configuration options, see [Agent Configuration](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/config-schema.md).
4. In your agent container, copy the agent.yaml file to the `/etc/signalfx/` directory.
5. If you have the Docker API available through the conventional *nix domain socket, mount it so
   you can use the docker-container-stats monitor. See [docker-container-stats](monitors/docker-container-stats.md).
6. To determine the agent version you want to run, see [SignalFx Smart Agent Releases](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/releases).
   Unless SignalFx advises you to do otherwise, choose the latest version.

To configure optional monitors, add the following lines to the agent.yaml file:

1. To load monitor configuration YAML files from the `/etc/signalfx/monitors/` directory, add the following line to
   the `monitors` property in agent.yaml:

   ```
   monitors:
     [omitted lines]
     - {"#from": "/etc/signalfx/monitors/*.yaml", flatten: true, optional: true}
   ```

2. To get disk usage metrics for the host file systems using the filesystems monitor, perform these steps:
   - Mount the `hostfs` root file system.
   - Add the `filesystems` monitor to agent.yaml:

   ```
   procPath: /hostfs/proc
     [omitted lines]
     monitors:
       [omitted lines]
       - type: filesystems
       hostFSPath: /hostfs
   ```

   To learn more, see the documentation for the [filesystems](monitors/filesystems.md) monitor.

3. Add the host metadata monitor to agent.yaml:

   ```
   etcPath: /hostfs/etc
   [omitted lines]
   monitors:
     - type: host-metadata
   ```

To learn more about configuring monitors and observers for the Smart Agent in Docker, see
[Agent Configuration](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/config-schema.md).

### Install the Smart Agent in Docker

To install and start the Smart Agent in a Docker container, run the following command, replacing `<version>` with
Smart Agent version number you obtained in [Prerequisites for all platforms](#prerequisites-for-all-platforms):

```
docker run \
 --name signalfx-agent \
 --pid host \
 --net host \
 -v /:/hostfs:ro \
 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
 -v /etc/signalfx/:/etc/signalfx/:ro \
 -v /etc/passwd:/etc/passwd:ro \
 quay.io/signalfx/signalfx-agent:<version>
```

### Verify your Docker installation

See [Verify the Smart Agent](#verify-the-smart-agent).

### Verify the Smart Agent

To verify that your installation and configuration is working:

* For infrastructure monitoring, perform these steps:
  1. In SignalFx, open the **Infrastructure** built-in dashboard
  2. In the override bar, select **Choose a host**. Select one of your hosts from the dropdown list.

  The charts display metrics from your infrastructure.

  To learn more, see [Built-In Dashboards and Charts](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/getting-started/built-in-content/built-in-dashboards.html).

* For Kubernetes monitoring, perform these steps:
  1. In SignalFx, from the main menu select **Infrastructure** > **Kubernetes Navigator** > **Cluster map**.
  2. In the cluster display, find the cluster you installed.
  3. Click the magnification icon to view the nodes in the cluster.

  The detail pane displays details of your cluster and nodes.

  To learn more, see [Getting Around the Kubernetes Navigator](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/kubernetes/get-around-k8s-navigator.html)

* For APM monitoring, learn how to install, configure, and verify the Smart Agent for Microservices APM (**µAPM**). See
[Get started with SignalFx µAPM](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/apm/apm-getting-started/apm-index.html).


## Install the Smart Agent using a Puppet module

Before you install, configure a Smart Agent Puppet manifest.

### Configure the Smart Agent for Puppet

1. Download the Puppet module from one of these sites:

   * [GitHub Agent Puppet Module](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/main/deployments/puppet)
   * [Puppet Forge Agent Puppet Module](https://forge.puppet.com/signalfx/signalfx_agent)

2. From the downloaded module, add the Smart Agent manifest to your Puppet installation.
3. Update your Puppet manifest with the `signalfx_agent` class and these parameters:

   - `$config`: The Smart Agent configuration. Replace `<access_token>` and `<realm>` with the access token and realm
     values you obtained  in [Prerequisites for all platforms](#prerequisites-for-all-platforms).
     All other properties are optional. For example, the following parameter represents a basic configuration that monitors
     host-level components:

     ```
     $config = {
       signalFxAccessToken: "<access_token>",
       signalFxRealm: "<realm>",
       monitors: [
         {type: "cpu"},
         {type: "filesystems"},
         {type: "disk-io"},
         {type: "net-io"},
         {type: "load"},
         {type: "memory"},
         {type: "host-metadata"},
         {type: "processlist"},
         {type: "vmem"}
       ]
     }
     ```

   - `$package_stage`: The module version to use is `release`, `beta`, or `test`. The default is `release`.

   - `$config_file_path`: The Smart Agent configuration file that the Puppet module uses to install the Agent.
     The default is /etc/signalfx/agent.yaml
   - `$agent_version`: The agent release version, in n.n.n format. Use the Smart Agent release version without the "v" prefix.
     This option is required on Windows. For a list of the Smart Agent versions, see the
     [SignalFx Smart Agent releases page](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/releases).
   - `$package_version`: The agent package version. The default for Debian and RPM systems is 1 less than the value of `$agent_version`.
     For Windows, the value is always `$agent_version`, so the Smart Agent ignores overrides. If set,
     `$package_version` takes precedence over `$agent_version`.
   - `$installation_directory`: For Windows only. The path to which Puppet downloads the Smart Agent.
     The default is `C:\Program Files\SignalFx\`.
   - `$service_user` and `$service_group`: For Linux only. This parameter is valid only for agent package version 5.1.0 or higher.
     The parameter sets the user and group ownership for the `signalfx-agent` service. The user and group are created if they don't exist.
     The defaults are `$service_user = signalfx-agent` and `$service_group = signalfx-agent`.

To learn more about the Smart Agent configuration options,
see [Agent Configuration](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/config-schema.md).

### Install the Smart Agent with Puppet

1. Remove collector services such as `collectd`.

2. Confirm that you have the correct Puppet tool for your platform:

   - For Linux, use the `puppetlabs/stdlib` module
   - For Debian systems, use the `puppetlabs/apt` module
   - For Windows, use the `puppet/archive` and `puppetlabs/powershell`

3. Use Puppet to install the Smart Agent to your hosts.

### Verify your Puppet installation

See [Verify the Smart Agent](#verify-the-smart-agent).


## Install the Smart Agent using a Salt formula

You can use a Salt formula that installs and configures the Smart Agent on Linux.
Download the formula from the [SignalFx Agent Salt formula site](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/main/deployments/salt).

### Configure the Smart Agent for Salt

1. Download the Smart Agent formula to the `/srv/salt` directory.
2. Copy the pillar.example file from the download directory to the `/srv/pillar` directory and rename it to pillar.
3. Update the top.sls file in `/srv/salt` and `/srv/pillar` to point to the Smart Agent formula.
4. Update the new pillar file with these attributes:
   - Required: `signalfx-agent.conf`: The agent configuration object. Replace `<access_token>` with the access token value you
     obtained in [Prerequisites for all platforms](#prerequisites-for-all-platforms).
     For example, this configuration object monitors basic host-level components:

     ```
     signalfx-agent:
       conf:
         signalFxAccessToken: '<access_token>'
         monitors:
           - type: cpu
           - type: filesystems
           - type: disk-io
           - type: net-io
           - type: load
           - type: memory
           - type: vmem
           - type: host-metadata
           - type: processlist
     ```

   - Optional: `signalfx-agent.version`: Desired agent version, specified as `<agent version>-<package revision>`. For example,
     `3.0.1-1` is the first package revision that contains the agent version 3.0.1. Releases with package revision greater than 1
     contain changes to some aspect of the packaging scripts, such as the `init` scripts, but
     contain the same agent bundle, which defaults to `latest`.
   - Optional: `signalfx-agent.package_stage`: Module version to use: `release`, `beta`, or `test`. The default is `release`.
     Test releases are unsigned.
   - Optional: `signalfx-agent.conf_file_path`: Destination file for the Smart Agent configuration file generated by the installation.
     The installation overwrites the agent.yaml downloaded in the Salt formula with the values specified by the signalfx-agent.conf
     attribute in pillar. The default destination is /etc/signalfx/agent.yaml.
   - Optional: `signalfx-agent.service_user`, `signalfx-agent.service_group`: Set the user and group for the `signalfx-agent` service.
     They're created if they don't exist. This property is available only in agent package version 5.1.0 or higher.
     The default value for both properties is `signalfx-agent`.

To learn more about the Smart Agent configuration options,  
see [Agent Configuration](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/blob/main/docs/config-schema.md).

### Install the Smart Agent with Salt

After you configure the Smart Agent Salt formula, Salt installs the Smart Agent on your hosts.

### Verify your Salt installation

See [Verify the Smart Agent](#verify-the-smart-agent).
