
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# aspdotnet

Monitor Type: `aspdotnet` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/aspdotnet))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Overview

(Windows Only) This monitor reports metrics about requests, errors, sessions,
worker processes for ASP.NET applications.

## Windows Performance Counters
The underlying source for these metrics are Windows Performance Counters.
Most of the performance counters that we query in this monitor are actually Gauges
that represent rates per second and percentages.

This monitor reports the instantaneous values for these Windows Performance Counters.
This means that in between a collection interval, spikes could occur on the
Performance Counters.  The best way to mitigate this limitation is to increase
the reporting interval on this monitor to collect more frequently.

Sample YAML configuration:

```yaml
monitors:
 - type: aspdotnet
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: aspdotnet
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `counterRefreshInterval` | no | `int64` | (Windows Only) Number of seconds that wildcards in counter paths should be expanded and how often to refresh counters from configuration. (**default:** `60s`) |
| `printValid` | no | `bool` | (Windows Only) Print out the configurations that match available performance counters.  This is used for debugging. (**default:** `false`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
This monitor emits all metrics by default; however, **none are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
-- they are all custom**.



 - ***`asp_net.application_restarts`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Count of ASP.NET application restarts.
 - ***`asp_net.applications_running`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of running ASP.NET applications.
 - ***`asp_net.requests_current`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Current number of ASP.NET requests.
 - ***`asp_net.requests_queue`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of queued ASP.NET requests.
 - ***`asp_net.requests_rejected`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Count of rejected ASP.NET requests.
 - ***`asp_net.worker_process_restarts`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Count of ASP.NET worker process restarts.
 - ***`asp_net.worker_processes_running`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of running ASP.NET worker processes.
 - ***`asp_net_applications.errors_during_execution`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Count of errors encountered by ASP.NET application durring execution.
 - ***`asp_net_applications.errors_total_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Error rate per second for the given ASP.NET application.
 - ***`asp_net_applications.errors_unhandled_during_execution_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Unhandled error rate per second countered while an ASP.NET application is running.
 - ***`asp_net_applications.pipeline_instance_count`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of instances in the ASP.NET application pipeline.
 - ***`asp_net_applications.requests_failed`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Count of failed requests in the ASP.NET application
 - ***`asp_net_applications.requests_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of requests in the ASP.NET application per second.
 - ***`asp_net_applications.session_sql_server_connections_total`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of connections to microsoft sql server by an ASP.NET application.
 - ***`asp_net_applications.sessions_active`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of active sessions in the ASP.NET application.
The agent does not do any built-in filtering of metrics coming out of this
monitor.


