
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/vmem

Monitor Type: `collectd/vmem` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/pkg/monitors/collectd/vmem))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Overview

Collects information about the virtual memory
subsystem of the kernel using the [collectd vmem
plugin](https://collectd.org/wiki/index.php/Plugin:vmem).  There is no
configuration available for this plugin.

**This monitor is deprecated in favor of the `vmem` monitor.  The metrics
should be fully compatible with this monitor.** This monitor will be
removed in a future agent release.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/vmem
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


This monitor has no configuration options.
## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - `vmpage_faults.majflt` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of major page faults on the system
 - `vmpage_faults.minflt` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of minor page faults on the system
 - `vmpage_io.memory.in` (*cumulative*)<br>    Page Ins for Memory
 - `vmpage_io.memory.out` (*cumulative*)<br>    Page Outs for Memory
 - ***`vmpage_io.swap.in`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Page Ins for Swap
 - ***`vmpage_io.swap.out`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Page Outs for Swap
 - `vmpage_number.free_pages` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of free memory pages
 - `vmpage_number.mapped` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of mapped pages
 - `vmpage_number.shmem_pmdmapped` (*gauge*)<br>    The amount of shared (shmem/tmpfs) memory backed by huge pages

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.



