
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/systemd

Monitor Type: `collectd/systemd` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/collectd/systemd))

**Accepts Endpoints**: **Yes**

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

This [SignalFx Smart Agent](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent) monitor collects metrics about the state of
configured systemd services using the [collectd-systemd](https://github.com/signalfx/collectd-systemd)
plugin. A service is in the state that a metric represents if the metric value is 1 and not in that state if the
metric value is 0. The name of the service that the metric is reporiting about is assigned to dimension
`systemd_service`.

The collectd-systemd plugin reads the status of systemd services from host location `/var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket`.
This means that the host location must be mounted to the container in which the SignalFx Smart Agent is running.
The agent container must also run in privilege mode. Below is an excerpt of the docker run command.
```yaml
docker run ...\
  --privileged \
  -v /var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket:/var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket:ro \
...
```
Below is a sample SignalFx Smart Agent YAML configuration for monitoring the state of `docker` and `ubuntu-fan`
services. See [here](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent#configuration) for SignalFx Smart Agent
configuration details.
```yaml
monitors:
- type: collectd/systemd
  intervalSeconds: 10
  services:
    - docker
    - ubuntu-fan
```
Only the metric `gauge.substate.running`, which indicates whether a service is running or not, gets reported by default.
The other metrics must be configure explicitly using the `sendActiveState`, `sendSubState` and `sendLoadState`
configuration flags (see below). The metrics are grouped into `ActiveState`, `SubState` and `LoadState` groups.
```
monitors:
- type: collectd/systemd
  intervalSeconds: 10
  services:
    - docker
    - ubuntu-fan
  sendActiveState: true
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/systemd
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services` | **yes** | `list of strings` | Systemd services to report on |
| `sendActiveState` | no | `bool` | Flag for sending metrics about the state of systemd services (**default:** `false`) |
| `sendSubState` | no | `bool` | Flag for sending more detailed metrics about the state of systemd services (**default:** `false`) |
| `sendLoadState` | no | `bool` | Flag for sending metrics about the load state of systemd services (**default:** `false`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
This monitor emits all metrics by default; however, **none are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
-- they are all custom**.



 - ***`gauge.active_state.activating`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service has previously been inactive but is currently in the process of entering an active state
 - ***`gauge.active_state.active`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service is active
 - ***`gauge.active_state.deactivating`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service is currently in the process of deactivation
 - ***`gauge.active_state.failed`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service is inactive the previous run was not successful
 - ***`gauge.active_state.inactive`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service is inactive and the previous run was successful or no previous run has taken place yet
 - ***`gauge.active_state.reloading`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service is active and currently reloading its configuration
 - ***`gauge.load_state.error`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service configuration failed to load
 - ***`gauge.load_state.loaded`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service configuration was loaded and parsed successfully
 - ***`gauge.load_state.masked`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service is currently masked out (i.e. symlinked to /dev/null etc)
 - ***`gauge.load_state.not-found`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service configuration was not found
 - ***`gauge.substate.dead`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service died
 - ***`gauge.substate.exited`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service exited
 - ***`gauge.substate.failed`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service failed
 - ***`gauge.substate.running`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates that the systemd unit/service is running

#### Group ActiveState
All of the following metrics are part of the `ActiveState` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `ActiveState` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:

#### Group LoadState
All of the following metrics are part of the `LoadState` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `LoadState` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:

#### Group SubState
All of the following metrics are part of the `SubState` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `SubState` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
The agent does not do any built-in filtering of metrics coming out of this
monitor.
## Dimensions

The following dimensions may occur on metrics emitted by this monitor.  Some
dimensions may be specific to certain metrics.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `plugin` | The name of the collectd plugin. Facilitates filtering operations in the SignalFx app |
| `systemd_service` | The name of the systemd service that the reported metric applies to |



