
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/memory

Monitor Type: `collectd/memory` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/pkg/monitors/collectd/memory))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Overview

Sends memory usage stats for the underlying host.
See https://collectd.org/wiki/index.php/Plugin:Memory


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/memory
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


This monitor has no configuration options.
## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`memory.buffered`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory used for buffering I/O
 - ***`memory.cached`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory used for disk caching
 - ***`memory.free`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory available for use
 - ***`memory.slab_recl`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory, used for SLAB-allocation of kernel objects, that can be reclaimed.
 - ***`memory.slab_unrecl`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory, used for SLAB-allocation of kernel objects, that can't be reclaimed
 - ***`memory.used`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory in use by the system.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.



