
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/statsd

Monitor Type: `collectd/statsd` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/collectd/statsd))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Overview

The StatsD plugin for collectd listens for StatsD
events, aggregates them and transmits them according to collectd's
configuration. Use this plugin to send data from StatsD to SignalFx [statsd
plugin](https://collectd.org/wiki/index.php/Plugin:StatsD).

SignalFx supports `Counter`, `Timer` and `Gauge` types which are dispatched
as the collectd types - `derive`, `latency` and `gauge` respectively.
In SignalFx, for a statsd metric, its collectd type is attached as a
prefix to the metric name. As an example, if you send in the gauge -

```
$ echo "statsd.test:1|g" | nc -w 1 -u 127.0.0.1 8125
```

This will be reported to SignalFx as "gauge.statsd.test"

### USAGE

#### Adding dimensions to StatsD metrics

Add dimensions to your metrics by adding key-value pairs to your StatsD
metric names as follows:

```
$ echo "statsd.[foo=bar,dim=val]test:1|g" | nc -w 1 -u 127.0.0.1 8125
```

This creates a metric called `statsd.test` of type gauge, with dimensions
`foo=bar` and `dim=val`.

#### Delete[Type]s boolean setting

These options control what happens if metrics are not updated in an
interval. If set to False, the default, metrics are dispatched unchanged,
i.e. the rate of counters and size of sets will be zero, timers report NaN
and gauges are unchanged. If set to True, the such metrics are not
dispatched and removed from the internal cache.

SignalFx's default configuration for this plugin sets all `Delete[Type]s`
configuration options to `True`. We strongly recommend this in order to
ensure that metrics that have stopped reporting are not reported as 0 in
perpetuity. Setting these parameters to `False` results in collectd's memory
usage increasing over time, as the set of metrics reported from StatsD grows
indefinitely. This is especially important in environments that are
long-running or whose metrics change frequently.

#### CounterSum boolean setting

When enabled, creates a count metric which reports the change since the last
read. This option primarily exists for compatibility with the statsd
implementation by Etsy.

If you are only looking at the counts generated by each reporting interval,
equivalent to
[Counters](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/metrics-metadata/metric-types.html?highlight=Counters)
in SignalFx then we'd recommend that you set CounterSum to `True`. It will
send in an additional counter metric with a prefix of `count`.

Sample YAML configuration:

```
monitors:
 - type: collectd/statsd
   listenAddress: "0.0.0.0"
   listenPort: 8125
   deleteSets: true
   timerPercentile: 90.0
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/statsd
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `listenAddress` | no | `string` | The host/address on which to bind the UDP listener that accepts statsd datagrams (**default:** `localhost`) |
| `listenPort` | no | `integer` | The port on which to listen for statsd messages (**default:** `8125`) |
| `deleteSets` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `deleteCounters` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `deleteTimers` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `deleteGauges` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `timerPercentile` | no | `float64` |  (**default:** `0`) |
| `timerUpper` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `timerCount` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `timerSum` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `timerLower` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `counterSum` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |



The agent does not do any built-in filtering of metrics coming out of this
monitor.


