
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# disk-io

Monitor Type: `disk-io` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/main/pkg/monitors/diskio))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

This monitor reports I/O metrics about disks.

On Linux hosts, this monitor relies on the `/proc` filesystem.
If the underlying host's `/proc` file system is mounted somewhere other than
/proc please specify the path using the top level configuration `procPath`.

```yaml
procPath: /proc
monitors:
 - type: disk-io
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: disk-io
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `disks` | no | `list of strings` | The devices to include/exclude. This is an [overridable set](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/agent/filtering.html#overridable-filters). (**default:** `[* !/^loop[0-9]+$/ !/^dm-[0-9]+$/]`) |
| `counterRefreshInterval` | no | `int64` | (Windows Only) The frequency that wildcards in counter paths should be expanded and how often to refresh counters from configuration. This is expressed as a duration. (**default:** `60s`) |
| `printValid` | no | `bool` | (Windows Only) Print out the configurations that match available performance counters.  This used for debugging. (**default:** `false`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - `disk_merged.read` (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The number of disk reads merged into single physical disk access operations.
 - `disk_merged.write` (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The number of disk writes merged into single physical disk access operations.
 - `disk_octets.avg_read` (*gauge*)<br>    (Windows Only) The average number of octets (bytes) read.
 - `disk_octets.avg_write` (*gauge*)<br>    (Windows Only) The average number of octets (bytes) written.
 - `disk_octets.read` (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The number of bytes (octets) read from a disk.
 - `disk_octets.write` (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The number of bytes (octets) written to a disk.
 - ***`disk_ops.avg_read`*** (*gauge*)<br>    (Windows Only) The average disk read queue length.
 - ***`disk_ops.avg_write`*** (*gauge*)<br>    (Windows Only) The average disk write queue length.
 - `disk_ops.pending` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of pending operations
 - ***`disk_ops.read`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The number of disk read operations.
 - ***`disk_ops.total`*** (*gauge*)<br>    (Linux Only) The number of both read and write disk operations across all disks in the last reporting interval.
 - ***`disk_ops.write`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The number of disk write operations.
 - `disk_time.avg_read` (*gauge*)<br>    (Windows Only) The average time spent reading from the disk.
 - `disk_time.avg_write` (*gauge*)<br>    (Windows Only) The average time spent writing to the disk
 - `disk_time.read` (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The average amount of time it took to do a read operation.
 - `disk_time.write` (*cumulative*)<br>    (Linux Only) The average amount of time it took to do a write operation.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

## Dimensions

The following dimensions may occur on metrics emitted by this monitor.  Some
dimensions may be specific to certain metrics.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `disk` | The name of the disk that the metric describes |



