
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# docker-container-stats

Monitor Type: `docker-container-stats` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/docker))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

This monitor reads container stats from a
Docker API server.  It is meant as a metric-compatible replacement of our
[docker-collectd](https://github.com/signalfx/docker-collectd-plugin)
plugin, which scales rather poorly against a large number of containers.

This currently does not support CPU share/quota metrics.

For more information on block IO metrics, see [the Linux cgroup block io
controller
doc](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/cgroup-v1/blkio-controller.txt).

If you are running the agent directly on a host (outside of a container
itself) and you are using the default Docker UNIX socket URL, you will
probably need to add the `signalfx-agent` user to the `docker` group in
order to have permission to access the Docker API via the socket.

Requires Docker API version 1.22+.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: docker-container-stats
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `enableExtraBlockIOMetrics` | no | `bool` | Whether it will send all extra block IO metrics as well. (**default:** `false`) |
| `enableExtraCPUMetrics` | no | `bool` | Whether it will send all extra CPU metrics as well. (**default:** `false`) |
| `enableExtraMemoryMetrics` | no | `bool` | Whether it will send all extra memory metrics as well. (**default:** `false`) |
| `enableExtraNetworkMetrics` | no | `bool` | Whether it will send all extra network metrics as well. (**default:** `false`) |
| `dockerURL` | no | `string` | The URL of the docker server (**default:** `unix:///var/run/docker.sock`) |
| `timeoutSeconds` | no | `integer` | The maximum amount of time to wait for docker API requests (**default:** `5`) |
| `labelsToDimensions` | no | `map of strings` | A mapping of container label names to dimension names. The corresponding label values will become the dimension value for the mapped name.  E.g. `io.kubernetes.container.name: container_spec_name` would result in a dimension called `container_spec_name` that has the value of the `io.kubernetes.container.name` container label. |
| `envToDimensions` | no | `map of strings` | A mapping of container environment variable names to dimension names.  The corresponding env var values become the dimension values on the emitted metrics.  E.g. `APP_VERSION: version` would result in datapoints having a dimension called `version` whose value is the value of the `APP_VERSION` envvar configured for that particular container, if present. |
| `excludedImages` | no | `list of strings` | A list of filters of images to exclude.  Supports literals, globs, and regex. |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


#### Group blkio
All of the following metrics are part of the `blkio` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `blkio` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `blkio.io_merged_recursive.async` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_merged_recursive.read` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_merged_recursive.sync` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_merged_recursive.total` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_merged_recursive.write` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_queue_recursive.async` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_queue_recursive.read` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_queue_recursive.sync` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_queue_recursive.total` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_queue_recursive.write` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_service_bytes_recursive.async` (*cumulative*)<br>    Volume, in bytes, of asynchronous block I/O
 - ***`blkio.io_service_bytes_recursive.read`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Volume, in bytes, of reads from block devices
 - `blkio.io_service_bytes_recursive.sync` (*cumulative*)<br>    Volume, in bytes, of synchronous block I/O
 - `blkio.io_service_bytes_recursive.total` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total volume, in bytes, of all block I/O
 - ***`blkio.io_service_bytes_recursive.write`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Volume, in bytes, of writes to block devices
 - `blkio.io_service_time_recursive.async` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_service_time_recursive.read` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_service_time_recursive.sync` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_service_time_recursive.total` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_service_time_recursive.write` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_serviced_recursive.async` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of asynchronous block I/O requests
 - `blkio.io_serviced_recursive.read` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of reads requests from block devices
 - `blkio.io_serviced_recursive.sync` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of synchronous block I/O requests
 - `blkio.io_serviced_recursive.total` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of block I/O requests
 - `blkio.io_serviced_recursive.write` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of write requests to block devices
 - `blkio.io_time_recursive.async` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_time_recursive.read` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_time_recursive.sync` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_time_recursive.total` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_time_recursive.write` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_wait_time_recursive.async` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_wait_time_recursive.read` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_wait_time_recursive.sync` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_wait_time_recursive.total` (*cumulative*)<br>
 - `blkio.io_wait_time_recursive.write` (*cumulative*)<br>

#### Group cpu
All of the following metrics are part of the `cpu` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `cpu` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `cpu.percent` (*gauge*)<br>    Percentage of host CPU resources used by the container
 - `cpu.percpu.usage` (*cumulative*)<br>    Jiffies of CPU time spent by the container, per CPU core
 - `cpu.throttling_data.periods` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of periods
 - `cpu.throttling_data.throttled_periods` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of periods throttled
 - `cpu.throttling_data.throttled_time` (*cumulative*)<br>    Throttling time in nano seconds
 - `cpu.usage.kernelmode` (*cumulative*)<br>    Jiffies of CPU time spent in kernel mode by the container
 - ***`cpu.usage.system`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Jiffies of CPU time used by the system
 - ***`cpu.usage.total`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Jiffies of CPU time used by the container
 - `cpu.usage.usermode` (*cumulative*)<br>    Jiffies of CPU time spent in user mode by the container

#### Group memory
All of the following metrics are part of the `memory` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `memory` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `memory.percent` (*gauge*)<br>    Percent of memory (0-100) used by the container relative to its limit (excludes page cache usage)
 - `memory.stats.active_anon` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of memory that has been identified as active by the kernel. Anonymous memory is memory that is not linked to disk pages.
 - `memory.stats.active_file` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of active file cache memory. Cache memory = active_file + inactive_file + tmpfs
 - `memory.stats.cache` (*gauge*)<br>    The amount of memory used by the processes of this control group that can be associated with a block on a block device. Also accounts for memory used by tmpfs.
 - `memory.stats.dirty` (*gauge*)<br>    The amount of memory waiting to get written to disk
 - `memory.stats.hierarchical_memory_limit` (*gauge*)<br>    The memory limit in place by the hierarchy cgroup
 - `memory.stats.hierarchical_memsw_limit` (*gauge*)<br>    The memory+swap limit in place by the hierarchy cgroup
 - `memory.stats.inactive_anon` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of memory that has been identified as inactive by the kernel. Anonymous memory is memory that is not linked to disk pages.
 - `memory.stats.inactive_file` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of inactive file cache memory. Cache memory = active_file + inactive_file + tmpfs
 - `memory.stats.mapped_file` (*gauge*)<br>    Indicates the amount of memory mapped by the processes in the control group. It doesn’t give you information about how much memory is used; it rather tells you how it is used.
 - `memory.stats.pgfault` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of times that a process of the cgroup triggered a page fault. Page faults occur when a process accesses part of its virtual memory space which is nonexistent or protected. See https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/runmetrics for more info.
 - `memory.stats.pgmajfault` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of times that a process of the cgroup triggered a major page fault. Page faults occur when a process accesses part of its virtual memory space which is nonexistent or protected. See https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/runmetrics for more info.
 - `memory.stats.pgpgin` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of charging events to the memory cgroup. Charging events happen each time a page is accounted as either mapped anon page(RSS) or cache page to the cgroup.
 - `memory.stats.pgpgout` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of uncharging events to the memory cgroup. Uncharging events happen each time a page is unaccounted from the cgroup.
 - `memory.stats.rss` (*gauge*)<br>    The amount of memory that doesn’t correspond to anything on disk: stacks, heaps, and anonymous memory maps.
 - `memory.stats.rss_huge` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of memory due to anonymous transparent hugepages.
 - `memory.stats.shmem` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of [Shared Memory](https://www.kernel.org/doc/gorman/html/understand/understand015.html) used by the container, in bytes.
 - `memory.stats.swap` (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of swap memory used by container
 - `memory.stats.total_active_anon` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory that has been identified as active by the kernel. Anonymous memory is memory that is not linked to disk pages.
 - `memory.stats.total_active_file` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of active file cache memory. Cache memory = active_file + inactive_file + tmpfs
 - `memory.stats.total_cache` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory used by the processes of this control group that can be associated with a block on a block device. Also accounts for memory used by tmpfs.
 - `memory.stats.total_dirty` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory waiting to get written to disk
 - `memory.stats.total_inactive_anon` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory that has been identified as inactive by the kernel. Anonymous memory is memory that is not linked to disk pages.
 - `memory.stats.total_inactive_file` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of inactive file cache memory. Cache memory = active_file + inactive_file + tmpfs
 - `memory.stats.total_mapped_file` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory mapped by the processes in the control group. It doesn’t give you information about how much memory is used; it rather tells you how it is used.
 - `memory.stats.total_pgfault` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of page faults
 - `memory.stats.total_pgmajfault` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of major page faults
 - `memory.stats.total_pgpgin` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of charging events
 - `memory.stats.total_pgpgout` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of uncharging events
 - `memory.stats.total_rss` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory that doesn’t correspond to anything on disk: stacks, heaps, and anonymous memory maps.
 - `memory.stats.total_rss_huge` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory due to anonymous transparent hugepages.
 - `memory.stats.total_shmem` (*gauge*)<br>    Available amount of [Shared Memory](https://www.kernel.org/doc/gorman/html/understand/understand015.html) used by the container, in bytes.
 - `memory.stats.total_swap` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of swap memory available to this container
 - `memory.stats.total_unevictable` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory that can not be reclaimed
 - `memory.stats.total_writeback` (*gauge*)<br>    Total amount of memory from file/anon cache that are queued for syncing to the disk
 - `memory.stats.unevictable` (*gauge*)<br>    The amount of memory that cannot be reclaimed.
 - `memory.stats.writeback` (*gauge*)<br>    The amount of memory from file/anon cache that are queued for syncing to the disk
 - ***`memory.usage.limit`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Memory usage limit of the container, in bytes
 - `memory.usage.max` (*gauge*)<br>    Maximum measured memory usage of the container, in bytes
 - ***`memory.usage.total`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory used by the container. Note that this **includes the
    buffer cache** attributed to the process by the kernel from files that
    have been read by processes in the container.  If you don't want to
    count that when monitoring containers, enable the metric
    `memory.stats.total_cache` and subtract that metric from this one.


#### Group network
All of the following metrics are part of the `network` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `network` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - ***`network.usage.rx_bytes`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Bytes received by the container via its network interface
 - `network.usage.rx_dropped` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of inbound network packets dropped by the container
 - `network.usage.rx_errors` (*cumulative*)<br>    Errors receiving network packets
 - `network.usage.rx_packets` (*cumulative*)<br>    Network packets received by the container via its network interface
 - ***`network.usage.tx_bytes`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Bytes sent by the container via its network interface
 - `network.usage.tx_dropped` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of outbound network packets dropped by the container
 - `network.usage.tx_errors` (*cumulative*)<br>    Errors sending network packets
 - `network.usage.tx_packets` (*cumulative*)<br>    Network packets sent by the container via its network interface

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



