
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# filesystems

Monitor Type: `filesystems` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/filesystems))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

This monitor reports metrics about free disk space on mounted devices.

On Linux hosts, this monitor relies on the `/proc` filesystem.
If the underlying host's `/proc` file system is mounted somewhere other than
/proc please specify the path using the top level configuration `procPath`.

```yaml
procPath: /hostfs/proc
monitors:
 - type: filesystems
   hostFSPath: /hostfs
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: filesystems
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `hostFSPath` | no | `string` | Path to the root of the host filesystem.  Useful when running in a container and the host filesystem is mounted in some subdirectory under /. |
| `fsTypes` | no | `list of strings` | The filesystem types to include/exclude.  This is an [overridable set](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/agent/filtering.html#overridable-filters). (**default:** `[* !aufs !overlay !tmpfs !proc !sysfs !nsfs !cgroup !devpts !selinuxfs !devtmpfs !debugfs !mqueue !hugetlbfs !securityfs !pstore !binfmt_misc !autofs]`) |
| `mountPoints` | no | `list of strings` | The mount paths to include/exclude. This is an [overridable set](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/integrations/agent/filtering.html#overridable-filters). NOTE: If you are using the hostFSPath option you should not include the `/hostfs/` mount in the filter. (**default:** `[* !/^/var/lib/docker/containers/ !/^/var/lib/rkt/pods/ !/^/net// !/^/smb// !/^/tmp/scratch/]`) |
| `includeLogical` | no | `bool` | (Linux Only) If true, then metrics will be reported about logical devices. (**default:** `false`) |
| `reportByDevice` | no | `bool` | If true, then metrics will report with their plugin_instance set to the device's name instead of the mountpoint. (**default:** `false`) |
| `reportInodes` | no | `bool` | (Linux Only) If true metrics will be reported about inodes. (**default:** `false`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`df_complex.free`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Free disk space in bytes
 - ***`df_complex.used`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Used disk space in bytes
 - ***`disk.summary_utilization`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Percent of disk space utilized on all volumes on this host. This metric reports with plugin dimension set to "signalfx-metadata".
 - ***`disk.utilization`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Percent of disk used on this volume. This metric reports with plugin dimension set to "signalfx-metadata".

#### Group inodes
All of the following metrics are part of the `inodes` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `inodes` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `df_inodes.free` (*gauge*)<br>    (Linux Only) Number of inodes that are free.  This is is only reported if the configuration option `inodes` is set to `true`.
 - `df_inodes.used` (*gauge*)<br>    (Linux Only) Number of inodes that are used.  This is only reported if the configuration option `inodes` is set to `true`.
 - `percent_inodes.free` (*gauge*)<br>    (Linux Only) Free inodes on the file system, expressed as a percentage.  This is only reported if the configuration option `inodes` is set to `true`.
 - `percent_inodes.used` (*gauge*)<br>    (Linux Only) Used inodes on the file system, expressed as a percentage.  This is only reported if the configuration option `inodes` is set to `true`.

#### Group logical
All of the following metrics are part of the `logical` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `logical` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `percent_bytes.free` (*gauge*)<br>    Free disk space on the file system, expressed as a percentage.
 - `percent_bytes.used` (*gauge*)<br>    Used disk space on the file system, expressed as a percentage.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



