
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# haproxy

Monitor Type: `haproxy` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/haproxy))

**Accepts Endpoints**: **Yes**

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

This monitor scrapes [HAProxy](http://www.haproxy.org/) statistics (i.e. metrics) from a configured
HTTP endpoint or UNIX socket. It requires HAProxy 1.8+ and supports scraping metrics for HAProxy running in
multi-process mode. In multi-process mode, HAProxy must be configured to enable stats on different URLs/socket
paths for the processes and for each URL/path a monitor instance needs to be defined and configured.

<!--- SETUP --->
### HTTP Endpoint Config
HAProxy stats must be enabled as described [here](https://www.haproxy.com/blog/exploring-the-haproxy-stats-page/).
Define the HAProxy monitor in the agent configuration file and provide the `csv export` URL where HAProxy
stats are served in CSV format. This monitor supports basic HTTP authentication. Simply provide the
username and password. In multi-process mode, declare and configure monitors for each stats HTTP endpoint. Below
below is an example showing stats enable on 2 URLs.
```
...
monitors:
  - type: haproxy
    url: "http://localhost:8404/stats?stats;csv"
    username: "your username here"
    password: "your password here"
  - type: haproxy
    url: "http://localhost:6000/stats?stats;csv"
...
```
Note: Only stats pertaining to the configured proxies (i.e. listeners, frontends, backends, and servers)
are available from the HTTP url. HAProxy process level stats given by command [show info](https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/1.8/management.html#9.3-show%20info)
are not available. The `show info` stats can only be scraped from a UNIX socket.

### UNIX Socket Config
The location of the HAProxy socket file is defined in the HAProxy config file. For example:
```
global
    daemon
    stats socket /var/run/haproxy.sock
    stats timeout 2m
```
For the above location of the socket file, configure the monitor URL as shown below:
```
...
monitors:
  - type: haproxy
    url: "unix:///var/run/haproxy.sock"
...
```
Note: The agent process needs read/write permissions to the HAProxy socket file.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: haproxy
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `host` | no | `string` | The host/ip address of the HAProxy instance. This is used to construct the `url` option if not provided. |
| `port` | no | `integer` | The port of the HAProxy instance's stats endpoint (if using HTTP). This is used to construct the `url` option if not provided. (**default:** `0`) |
| `path` | no | `string` | The path to HAProxy stats. The default is `stats?stats;csv`. This is used to construct the `url` option if not provided. (**default:** `stats?stats;csv`) |
| `useHTTPS` | no | `bool` | Whether to connect on HTTPS or HTTP. If you want to use a UNIX socket, then specify the `url` config option with the format `unix://...` and omit `host`, `port` and `useHTTPS`. (**default:** `false`) |
| `url` | no | `string` | URL on which to scrape HAProxy. Scheme `http://` for http-type and `unix://` socket-type urls. If this is not provided, it will be derive from the `host`, `port`, `path`, and `useHTTPS` options. |
| `username` | no | `string` | Basic Auth username to use on each request, if any. |
| `password` | no | `string` | Basic Auth password to use on each request, if any. |
| `sslVerify` | no | `bool` | Flag that enables SSL certificate verification for the scrape URL. (**default:** `true`) |
| `timeout` | no | `int64` | Timeout for trying to get stats from HAProxy. This should be a duration string that is accepted by https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration (**default:** `5s`) |
| `proxies` | no | `list of strings` | A list of the pxname(s) and svname(s) to monitor (e.g. `["http-in", "server1", "backend"]`). If empty then metrics for all proxies will be reported. |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - `haproxy_active_servers` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of active servers (backend), server is active (server). Values reported for backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_backup_servers` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of backup servers (backend), server is backup (server). Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_bytes_in`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of incoming bytes. Values reported for listeners, frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_bytes_out`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of outgoing bytes. Values reported for listeners, frontends, backends, and servers.
 - `haproxy_check_duration` (*gauge*)<br>    Time in ms took to finish last health check. Values reported for servers.
 - `haproxy_client_aborts` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of data transfers aborted by the client. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_compress_bits_per_second_in` (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `CompressBpsIn` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_compress_bits_per_second_out` (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `CompressBpsOut` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_compress_bypass` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of bytes that bypassed the HTTP compressor (CPU/BW limit). Values reported for frontends and backends.
 - `haproxy_compress_in` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of HTTP response bytes fed to the compressor. Values reported for frontends and backends.
 - `haproxy_compress_out` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of HTTP response bytes emitted by the compressor. Values reported for frontends and backends.
 - `haproxy_compress_responses` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of HTTP responses that were compressed. Values reported for frontends and backends.
 - `haproxy_connection_rate` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of connections over the last elapsed second. Values reported for frontends.
 - ***`haproxy_connection_rate_all`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `ConnRate` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_connection_rate_max` (*gauge*)<br>    Highest known conn_rate. Values reported for frontends.
 - `haproxy_connection_total` (*cumulative*)<br>    Cumulative number of connections. Values reported for frontends.
 - `haproxy_connections` (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `CumConns` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket. Cumulative number of connections.
 - `haproxy_current_connections` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `CurrConns` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_current_ssl_connections` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `CurrSslConns` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - ***`haproxy_denied_request`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of requests denied because of security concerns. For tcp this is because of a matched tcp-request content rule. For http this is because of a matched http-request or tarpit rule. Values reported for listeners, frontends, and backends.
 - ***`haproxy_denied_response`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of responses denied because of security concerns. For http this is because of a matched http-request rule, or "option checkcache". Values reported for listeners, frontends, backends, and servers.
 - `haproxy_denied_tcp_connections` (*gauge*)<br>    Requests denied by "tcp-request connection" rules. Values reported for listeners and frontends.
 - `haproxy_denied_tcp_sessions` (*gauge*)<br>    Requests denied by "tcp-request session" rules. Values reported for listeners and frontends.
 - `haproxy_downtime` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total downtime (in seconds). The value for the backend is the downtime for the whole backend, not the sum of the server downtime. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_error_connections`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of requests that encountered an error trying to connect to a backend server. The backend stat is the sum of the stat for all servers of that backend, plus any connection errors not associated with a particular server (such as the backend having no active servers). Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_error_request`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of request errors. Some of the possible causes are: early termination from the client, before the request has been sent, read error from the client, client timeout, client closed connection, various bad requests from the client, request was tarpitted. Values reported for listeners and frontends.
 - ***`haproxy_error_response`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of response errors. haproxy_server_aborts will be counted here also. Some other errors are: write error on the client socket (won't be counted for the server stat), failure applying filters to the response. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_failed_checks` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of failed checks. (Only counts checks failed when the server is up.). Values reported for servers.
 - ***`haproxy_idle_percent`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `Idle_pct` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket. Ratio of system polling time versus total time.
 - `haproxy_intercepted_requests` (*gauge*)<br>    Cumulative number of intercepted requests (monitor, stats). Values reported for frontends and backends.
 - `haproxy_last_session` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of seconds since last session assigned to server/backend. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_max_connection_rate` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `MaxConnRate` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_max_connections` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `MaxConn` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_max_pipes` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `MaxPipes` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_max_session_rate` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `MaxSessRate` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_max_ssl_connections` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `MaxSslConns` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_pipes_free` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `PipesFree` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_pipes_used` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `PipesUsed` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - ***`haproxy_queue_current`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of current queued requests. For the backend this reports the number queued without a server assigned. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_queue_limit` (*gauge*)<br>    Configured maxqueue for the server, or nothing in the value is 0 (default, meaning no limit). Values reported for servers.
 - `haproxy_queue_max` (*gauge*)<br>    The max value of qcur. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_queue_time_average`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The average queue time in ms over the 1024 last requests. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_redispatched`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of times a request was redispatched to another server. The server value counts the number of times that server was switched away from. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_request_rate`*** (*gauge*)<br>    HTTP requests per second over last elapsed second. Values reported for frontends.
 - `haproxy_request_rate_max` (*gauge*)<br>    Max number of HTTP requests per second observed. Values reported for frontends.
 - `haproxy_request_total` (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of HTTP requests received. Values reported for frontends and backends.
 - ***`haproxy_requests`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `CumReq` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_response_1xx` (*cumulative*)<br>    HTTP responses with 1xx code. Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_response_2xx`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    HTTP responses with 2xx code. Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - `haproxy_response_3xx` (*cumulative*)<br>    HTTP responses with 3xx code. Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_response_4xx`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    HTTP responses with 4xx code. Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_response_5xx`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    HTTP responses with 5xx code. Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - `haproxy_response_other` (*cumulative*)<br>    HTTP responses with other codes (protocol error). Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_response_time_average`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The average response time in ms over the 1024 last requests (0 for TCP). Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_retries`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of times a connection to a server was retried. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_run_queue` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `Run_queue` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_server_aborts` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of data transfers aborted by the server (inc. in eresp). Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_server_selected_total`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of times a server was selected, either for new sessions, or when re-dispatching. The server counter is the number of times that server was selected. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_session_current`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number current sessions. Values reported for listeners, frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_session_rate`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of sessions per second over last elapsed second. Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_session_rate_all`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `SessRate` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_session_rate_limit` (*gauge*)<br>    Configured limit on new sessions per second. Values reported for frontends.
 - `haproxy_session_rate_max` (*gauge*)<br>    Max number of new sessions per second. Values reported for frontends, backends, and servers.
 - ***`haproxy_session_time_average`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The average total session time in ms over the 1024 last requests. Values reported for backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_session_total` (*cumulative*)<br>    The cumulative number of sessions. Values reported for listeners, frontends, backends, and servers.
 - `haproxy_ssl_backend_key_rate` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `SslBackendKeyRate` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_ssl_cache_lookups` (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `SslCacheLookups` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_ssl_cache_misses` (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `SslCacheMisses` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_ssl_connections` (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `CumSslConns` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_ssl_frontend_key_rate` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `SslFrontendKeyRate` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_ssl_rate` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `SslRate` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_status` (*gauge*)<br>    HAProxy status values derived from the status stat. Status stat values `UP`, `UP 1/3`, `UP 2/3`, `OPEN` and `no check` are assigned 1. Values `DOWN`, `DOWN 1/2`, `NOLB` and `MAINT` are assigned 0. Values reported for listeners, frontends, backends and servers.
 - `haproxy_tasks` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `Tasks` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_throttle` (*gauge*)<br>    Current throttle percentage for the server, when slowstart is active, or no value if not in slowstart. Values reported for servers.
 - `haproxy_uptime_seconds` (*cumulative*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `Uptime_sec` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.
 - `haproxy_zlib_memory_usage` (*gauge*)<br>    Corresponds to the HAProxy process `ZlibMemUsage` value given by the `show info` command issued over UNIX socket.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.

## Dimensions

The following dimensions may occur on metrics emitted by this monitor.  Some
dimensions may be specific to certain metrics.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `process_id` | A number assigned to an HAProxy process instance (1 for first instance, 2 for second, ...). |
| `proxy_name` | HAProxy configured proxy name. Possible values for listeners, frontends, backends, and servers. |
| `server_id` | Server id (unique inside a proxy) |
| `service_name` | HAProxy configured service name. Possible values are FRONTEND for frontend, BACKEND for backend, configured name for server/listener. |
| `type` | Proxy type id (0=frontend, 1=backend, 2=server, 3=socket/listener). |
| `unique_proxy_id` | A unique proxy id |



