
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# host-metadata

Monitor Type: `host-metadata` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/metadata/hostmetadata))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Overview

This monitor collects metadata properties about a
host.  It is required for some views in SignalFx to operate.

```yaml
monitors:
  - type: host-metadata
```

In containerized environments host `/etc` and `/proc` may not be located
directly under the root path.  You can specify the path to `proc` and `etc`
using the top level agent configurations `procPath` and `etcPath`

```yaml
procPath: /proc
etcPath: /etc
monitors:
  - type: host-metadata
```

Metadata updates occur on a sparse interval of approximately
1m, 1m, 1h, 1d and continues repeating once per day.
Setting the `Interval` configuration for this monitor will not affect the
sparse interval on which metadata is collected.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: host-metadata
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


This monitor has no configuration options.
## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`sfxagent.hostmetadata`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The time the hostmetadata monitor has been running in seconds.  It includes dimensional metadata about the host and agent.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.

## Dimensions

The following dimensions may occur on metrics emitted by this monitor.  Some
dimensions may be specific to certain metrics.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `collectd` | The version of collectd in the signalfx-agent |
| `kernel_name` | The name of the host kernel. |
| `kernel_release` | The release of the host kernel. |
| `kernel_version` | The version of the host kernel. |
| `os_version` | The version of the os on the host. |
| `signalfx_agent` | The version of the signalfx-agent |



