
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# internal-metrics

Monitor Type: `internal-metrics` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/internalmetrics))

**Accepts Endpoints**: **Yes**

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

Emits metrics about the internal state of the
agent.  Useful for debugging performance issues with the agent and to ensure
the agent isn't overloaded.

This can also scrape any HTTP endpoint that exposes metrics as a JSON array
containing JSON-formatted SignalFx datapoint objects.  It is roughly
analogous to the `prometheus-exporter` monitor except for SignalFx
datapoints.

```yaml
monitors:
  - type: internal-metrics
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: internal-metrics
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `host` | no | `string` | Defaults to the top-level `internalStatusHost` option |
| `port` | no | `integer` | Defaults to the top-level `internalStatusPort` option |
| `path` | no | `string` | The HTTP request path to use to retrieve the metrics (**default:** `/metrics`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`sfxagent.active_monitors`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The total number of monitor instances actively working
 - ***`sfxagent.active_observers`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The number of observers configured and running
 - ***`sfxagent.configured_monitors`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The total number of monitor configurations
 - ***`sfxagent.datapoint_channel_len`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The total number of datapoints that have been emitted by monitors but have yet to be accepted by the writer. This number should be 0 most of the time.  This will max out at 3000, at which point no datapoints will be generated by monitors.  If it does max out, it indicates a bug or extreme CPU starvation of the agent.
 - ***`sfxagent.datapoint_requests_active`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The total number of outstanding requests to ingest currently active.  If this is consistently hovering around the `writer.maxRequests` setting, that setting should probably be increased to give the agent more bandwidth to send datapoints.
 - ***`sfxagent.datapoints_failed`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    The total number of datapoints that tried to be sent but could not be
    by the agent writer since it last started.  This can be due to network
    failures or an incorrect access token, among other things.

 - ***`sfxagent.datapoints_filtered`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    The total number of datapoints that were filtered out in the writer.  This does not include datapoints filtered by monitor-specific filters.
 - ***`sfxagent.datapoints_in_flight`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The total number of datapoints that have been sent out in a request to ingest but have yet to receive confirmation from ingest that they have been received (i.e. the HTTP response hasn't been gotten).
 - ***`sfxagent.datapoints_received`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    The total number of non-filtered datapoints received by the agent writer since it last started.  This number should generally equal `sfxagent.datapoints_sent + sfxagent.datapoints_waiting + sfxagent.datapoints_in_flight`, although sampling timing issues might cause it to temporarily not be.
 - ***`sfxagent.datapoints_sent`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    The total number of datapoints sent by the agent writer since it last started
 - ***`sfxagent.datapoints_waiting`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The total number of datapoints that have been accepted by the writer but have yet to be sent out to ingest over HTTP.  If this continues to grow it indicates that datapoints are not being sent out fast enough and the `writer.maxRequests` setting should be increased.
 - ***`sfxagent.dim_request_senders`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Current number of worker goroutines active that can send dimension updates.
 - ***`sfxagent.dim_updates_completed`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of dimension property updates successfully completed
 - ***`sfxagent.dim_updates_currently_delayed`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Current number of dimension updates that are being delayed to avoid sending spurious updates due to flappy dimension property sets.
 - ***`sfxagent.dim_updates_dropped`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of dimension property updates that were dropped, due to an overfull buffer of dimension updates pending.
 - ***`sfxagent.dim_updates_failed`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of dimension property updates that failed for some reason.  The failures should be logged.
 - ***`sfxagent.dim_updates_flappy_total`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of dimension property updates that ended up replacing a dimension property set that was being delayed.
 - ***`sfxagent.dim_updates_started`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of dimension property updates requests started, but not necessarily completed or failed.
 - ***`sfxagent.discovered_endpoints`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The number of discovered service endpoints.  This includes endpoints that do not have any matching monitor configuration discovery rule.
 - ***`sfxagent.events_buffered`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The total number of events that have been emitted by monitors but have yet to be sent to SignalFx
 - ***`sfxagent.events_sent`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    The total number of events sent by the agent since it last started
 - ***`sfxagent.go_frees`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of heap objects freed throughout the lifetime of the agent
 - ***`sfxagent.go_heap_alloc`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of live heap memory (memory that has been allocated but not freed)
 - ***`sfxagent.go_heap_idle`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory that consist of idle spans (that is, completely empty spans of memory)
 - ***`sfxagent.go_heap_inuse`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Size in bytes of in use spans
 - ***`sfxagent.go_heap_released`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes of memory that have been returned to the OS.  This is quite often 0.  `sfxagent.go_heap_idle - sfxagent.go_heap_release` is the memory that Go is retaining for future heap allocations.
 - ***`sfxagent.go_heap_sys`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Virtual memory size in bytes of the agent.  This will generally reflect the largest heap size the agent has ever had in its lifetime.
 - ***`sfxagent.go_mallocs`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of heap objects allocated throughout the lifetime of the agent
 - ***`sfxagent.go_next_gc`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The target heap size -- GC tries to keep the heap smaller than this
 - ***`sfxagent.go_num_gc`*** (*gauge*)<br>    The number of GC cycles that have happened in the agent since it started
 - ***`sfxagent.go_stack_inuse`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Size in bytes of spans that have at least one goroutine stack in them
 - ***`sfxagent.go_total_alloc`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of bytes allocated to the heap throughout the lifetime of the agent
 - ***`sfxgent.go_num_goroutine`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of goroutines in the agent

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



