
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# load

Monitor Type: `load` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/pkg/monitors/load))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Overview

Monitors process load on the host. Process load is the average number of
running or waiting processes over a certain time period (1, 5, and 15
minutes).

See http://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2017-08-08/linux-load-averages.html
for a good explanation of load on Linux.

This monitor is only available on Linux.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: load
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `perCPU` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`load.longterm`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Average CPU load of the system over the last 15 minutes.  If the `perCPU` config option is `true`, this will be the average load per CPU.
 - ***`load.midterm`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Average CPU load of the system over the last 5 minutes.  If the `perCPU` config option is `true`, this will be the average load per CPU.
 - ***`load.shortterm`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Average CPU load of the system over the last minute.  If the `perCPU` config option is `true`, this will be the average load per CPU.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.



