
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# nagios

Monitor Type: `nagios` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/main/pkg/monitors/nagios))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

Wrapper to run existing nagios status check scripts through SignalFx agent which will play the 
role of NRPE or SNMP exec.

It will run the script set in `command` parameter and send the 
[state](https://nagios-plugins.org/doc/guidelines.html#AEN78) of the check depending on the 
exit code of the command.

It is very similar to [telegraf/exec](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/exec/telegraf-exec.html) 
monitor configured with `dataFormat: nagios` but:
  - it does not retrieve perfdata metrics, only the state of the script for alerting purpose.
  - it will override the state if exit code == 0 but output string starts with `warn`, `crit` or `unkn` 
  (not case sensitive).

Also the main advantage and purpose of this monitor is to add more context to this status check state 
thougth SignalFx [events](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/metrics-and-metadata/view-data-events.html).
Indeed, in addition to the state metric, it will send an event which includes the output and the error 
caught from the command execution.

This should make the troubleshooting more efficient and allow the user to remain in SignalFx without 
to have to connect to the machine in case of anormal state to understand what is happening.
It will also give the ability to create a dashboard similar to what nagios user are accustomed to.

__Note__: the last sent event is cached into memory to avoid sending the same event for each collection 
interval over and over but already sent event will be send again when you restart the agent erasing its 
cache. If your check always "normally" produces a different output for each run like the uptime check 
does so you can use the `FilterStdOut: true` parameter to ignore it in comparison.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: nagios
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `command` | **yes** | `string` | The command to exec with any arguments like: `"LC_ALL=\"en_US.utf8\" /usr/lib/nagios/plugins/check_ntp_time -H pool.ntp.typhon.net -w 0.5 -c 1"` |
| `service` | **yes** | `string` | Corresponds to the nagios `service` column and allows to aggregate all instances of the same service (when calling the same check script with different arguments) |
| `timeout` | no | `integer` | The max execution time allowed in seconds before sending SIGKILL (**default:** `9`) |
| `ignoreStdOut` | no | `bool` | If `false` and change is detected on `stdout` compared to the last event it will send a new one (**default:** `false`) |
| `ignoreStdErr` | no | `bool` | If `false` and change is detected on `stderr` compared to the last event it will send a new one (**default:** `false`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
**All of the metrics emitted from this monitor are categorized as
[custom](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/admin/subscription-usage/monitor-imm-billing-usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)**
but the ones that are emitted by default from the monitor are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.



 - ***`nagios.state`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Nagios status check [state](https://nagios-plugins.org/doc/guidelines.html#AEN78).

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

## Dimensions

The following dimensions may occur on metrics emitted by this monitor.  Some
dimensions may be specific to certain metrics.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `command` | The configured `command` for this monitor. |
| `plugin` | The name of this monitor: `nagios`. |
| `service` | The configured `service` for this monitor. |



