
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# telegraf/sqlserver

Monitor Type: `telegraf/sqlserver` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/telegraf/monitors/mssqlserver))

**Accepts Endpoints**: **Yes**

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

This monitor reports metrics about Microsoft SQL servers.
This monitor is based on the telegraf sqlserver plugin.  More information about the telegraf plugin
can be found [here](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs/sqlserver).

You will need to create a login on the SQL server for the monitor to use.  You can create this login by
executing the following commands in an a SQL client while logged in as an administrator.

```
USE master;
GO
CREATE LOGIN [signalfxagent] WITH PASSWORD = N'<YOUR PASSWORD HERE>';
GO
GRANT VIEW SERVER STATE TO [signalfxagent];
GO
GRANT VIEW ANY DEFINITION TO [signalfxagent];
GO
```

Troubleshooting:

On some Windows based SQL server distributions TCP/IP has been disabled by default.  This behavior
has been observed on Azure SQL server instances.  You may need to explicitly turn on TCP/IP for the
SQL server if you see error messages simillar to the following.

```
Cannot read handshake packet: read tcp: wsarecv: An existing connection was forcibly closed by the remote host.
```

1. Verify agent configurations are correct.
2. Ensure TCP/IP is enabled for the SQL server by going to `Start` -> `Administrative Tools` -> `Computer Management`
3. In the `Computer Management` side bar, drill down to `Services and Applications` -> `SQL Server Configuration Manager` -> `SQL Server Network Configuration`
4. Select `Protocols for <YOUR SQL SERVER NAME>`.
5. In the protocol list to the right, right-click on the `TCP/IP` protocol and `enable` it.

Sample YAML configuration:

```yaml
monitors:
 - type: telegraf/sqlserver
   host: hostname
   port: 1433
   userID: sa
   password: P@ssw0rd!
   appName: signalfxagent
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: telegraf/sqlserver
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `host` | **yes** | `string` |  |
| `port` | **yes** | `integer` |  |
| `userID` | no | `string` | UserID used to access the SQL Server instance. |
| `password` | no | `string` | Password used to access the SQL Server instance. |
| `appName` | no | `string` | The app name used by the monitor when connecting to the SQLServer. (**default:** `signalfxagent`) |
| `queryVersion` | no | `integer` | The version of queries to use when accessing the cluster. Please refer to the telegraf documentation for more information. (**default:** `2`) |
| `azureDB` | no | `bool` | Whether the database is an azure database or not. (**default:** `false`) |
| `excludedQueries` | no | `list of strings` | Queries to exclude possible values are `PerformanceCounters`, `WaitStatsCategorized`, `DatabaseIO`, `DatabaseProperties`, `CPUHistory`, `DatabaseSize`, `DatabaseStats`, `MemoryClerk` `VolumeSpace`, and `PerformanceMetrics`. |
| `log` | no | `unsigned integer` | Log level to use when accessing the database (**default:** `1`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`sqlserver_database_io.read_bytes`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes read by the database.
 - ***`sqlserver_database_io.read_latency_ms`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Latency in milliseconds reading from the database.
 - ***`sqlserver_database_io.reads`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of reads from the database.
 - ***`sqlserver_database_io.write_bytes`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Bytes written to the database.
 - ***`sqlserver_database_io.write_latency_ms`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Latency in milliseconds writing to the database.
 - ***`sqlserver_database_io.writes`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of writes to the database.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.bound_trees` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of bound trees memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.buffer_pool` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of buffer pool memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.connection_pool` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of connection pool memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.general` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of general memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.in-memory_oltp` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of in in-memoory oltp memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.log_pool` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of log pool memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.memoryclerk_sqltrace` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of sql trace memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.schema_manager_user_store` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of user store schema manager memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.sos_node` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of sos node memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.sql_optimizer` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of SQL optimizer memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.sql_plans` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of sql plans memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.sql_reservations` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of sql reservations memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.sql_storage_engine` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of sql storage engine memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_memory_clerks.size_kb.system_rowset_store` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of system rowset store memory clerk.
 - `sqlserver_performance.active_memory_grant_amount_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of active memory in KB granted.
 - `sqlserver_performance.active_temp_tables` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of active temporary tables.
 - `sqlserver_performance.background_writer_pages_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of pages written in the background.
 - `sqlserver_performance.backup_restore_throughput_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of backup/restore throughput.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.batch_requests_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of batch requests.
 - `sqlserver_performance.blocked_tasks` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of blocked tasks.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.buffer_cache_hit_ratio`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Buffer cache hit ration.
 - `sqlserver_performance.bytes_received_from_replica_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of bytes received from replicas.
 - `sqlserver_performance.bytes_sent_to_replica_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of bytes sent to replicas.
 - `sqlserver_performance.bytes_sent_to_transport_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of bytes sent to transports.
 - `sqlserver_performance.checkpoint_pages_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of checkpoint pages.
 - `sqlserver_performance.cpu_limit_violation_count` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of cpu limit violations.
 - `sqlserver_performance.cpu_usage_pct` (*gauge*)<br>    CPU usage percentage.
 - `sqlserver_performance.cpu_usage_time` (*gauge*)<br>    CPU usage time.
 - `sqlserver_performance.data_file_size_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of data files.
 - `sqlserver_performance.disk_read_bytes_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of bytes from disk.
 - `sqlserver_performance.disk_read_io_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of read operations from disk.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.disk_read_io_throttled_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of throttled read operations.
 - `sqlserver_performance.disk_write_bytes_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of bytes written to disk.
 - `sqlserver_performance.disk_write_io_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of write operations to disk.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.disk_write_io_throttled_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of write operations throttled.
 - `sqlserver_performance.errors_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of errors per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.flow_control_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of flow control.
 - `sqlserver_performance.flow_control_time_ms_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of ms of flow control time.
 - `sqlserver_performance.forwarded_records_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of record forwarding.
 - `sqlserver_performance.free_list_stalls_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of stalled free list.
 - `sqlserver_performance.free_space_in_tempdb_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Free space in KB of tempdb.
 - `sqlserver_performance.full_scans_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of full scans.
 - `sqlserver_performance.index_searches_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of index searches.
 - `sqlserver_performance.latch_waits_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of latch waits.
 - `sqlserver_performance.lazy_writes_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of lazy writes.
 - `sqlserver_performance.lock_timeouts_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of lock timeouts.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.lock_wait_count`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of lock waits.
 - `sqlserver_performance.lock_wait_time` (*gauge*)<br>    Lock wait time.
 - `sqlserver_performance.lock_waits_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of lock waits.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_apply_pending_queue` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of the log apply pending queue.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_apply_ready_queue` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of log apply ready queue.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_bytes_flushed_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of log bytes flushed.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_bytes_received_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of log bytes received.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_file_size_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of log file.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_file_used_size_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Size in KB of log file used.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_flush_wait_time` (*gauge*)<br>    Time spent flushing the log.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_flushes_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of log flushes.
 - `sqlserver_performance.log_send_queue` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of the log send queue.
 - `sqlserver_performance.logins_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of logins per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.logouts_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of logouts per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.memory_broker_clerk_size` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of memory broker clerk.
 - `sqlserver_performance.memory_grants_outstanding` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of outstanding memory grants.
 - `sqlserver_performance.memory_grants_pending` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of pending memory grants.
 - `sqlserver_performance.number_of_deadlocks_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of deadlocks per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.page_life_expectancy` (*gauge*)<br>    Page life expectancy.
 - `sqlserver_performance.page_lookups_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of page look ups per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.page_reads_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of page reads per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.page_splits_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of page splits per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.page_writes_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of page writes per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.pct_log_used` (*gauge*)<br>    Percentage of log used.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.processes_blocked`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of blocked processes.
 - `sqlserver_performance.query` (*gauge*)<br>    [User settable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/performance-monitor/sql-server-user-settable-object?view=sql-server-2017) performance counters

 - `sqlserver_performance.queued_request_count` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of queued requests.
 - `sqlserver_performance.queued_requests` (*gauge*)<br>    Average number of queued requests.
 - `sqlserver_performance.readahead_pages_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate per second of read ahead pages.
 - `sqlserver_performance.receives_from_replica_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate receives from replicas per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.recovery_queue` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of recovery queue.
 - `sqlserver_performance.redone_bytes_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of redone bytes per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.reduced_memory_grant_count` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of reduced memory grants.
 - `sqlserver_performance.request_count` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of requests.
 - `sqlserver_performance.requests_completed_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of completed requests per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.resent_messages_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of resent messages per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.sends_to_replica_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of sends to replicas per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.sends_to_transport_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of sends to transports per second.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.sql_compilations_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of sql compilations per second.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.sql_re-compilations_sec`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of sql recompilations per sec.
 - `sqlserver_performance.target_server_memory_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of target server memory in KB.
 - `sqlserver_performance.temp_tables_creation_rate` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of temporary table creations.
 - `sqlserver_performance.temp_tables_for_destruction` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of temporary tables marked for destruction.
 - `sqlserver_performance.total_server_memory_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Total server memory in KB.
 - `sqlserver_performance.transaction_delay` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of delayed transactions.
 - `sqlserver_performance.transactions_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of transactions per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.used_memory_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Used memory in KB.
 - ***`sqlserver_performance.user_connections`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of user connections.
 - `sqlserver_performance.version_store_size_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of the version store in KB.
 - `sqlserver_performance.write_transactions_sec` (*gauge*)<br>    Rate of write transactions per second.
 - `sqlserver_performance.xtp_memory_used_kb` (*gauge*)<br>    Size of xtp memory used in KB.
 - `sqlserver_server_properties.available_storage_mb` (*gauge*)<br>    Available storage in MB.
 - `sqlserver_server_properties.cpu_count` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of cpus.
 - ***`sqlserver_server_properties.db_offline`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of offline databases.
 - ***`sqlserver_server_properties.db_online`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of online databases.
 - ***`sqlserver_server_properties.db_recovering`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of databases recovering.
 - ***`sqlserver_server_properties.db_recoverypending`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of databases pending recovery.
 - ***`sqlserver_server_properties.db_restoring`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of databases restoring.
 - ***`sqlserver_server_properties.db_suspect`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of suspect databases.
 - `sqlserver_server_properties.engine_edition` (*gauge*)<br>    Sql server engine edition version.
 - `sqlserver_server_properties.server_memory` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of memory on the sql server.
 - `sqlserver_server_properties.total_storage_mb` (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of storage in MB of the sql server.
 - `sqlserver_server_properties.uptime` (*gauge*)<br>    Uptime of the sql server.
 - `sqlserver_waitstats.max_wait_time_ms` (*gauge*)<br>    Maximum time in millisecond spent waiting.
 - `sqlserver_waitstats.resource_wait_ms` (*gauge*)<br>    Time in milliseconds spent waiting on a resource.
 - `sqlserver_waitstats.signal_wait_time_ms` (*gauge*)<br>    Time in milliseconds waiting on a signal.
 - `sqlserver_waitstats.wait_time_ms` (*gauge*)<br>    Time in milliseconds waiting.
 - `sqlserver_waitstats.waiting_tasks_count` (*gauge*)<br>    Time in milliseconds

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.html#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



