
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->
<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# telegraf/varnish

Monitor Type: `telegraf/varnish` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/main/pkg/monitors/telegraf/monitors/varnish))

**Accepts Endpoints**: **Yes**

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

This is an embedded form of the [Telegraf Varnish
plugin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs/varnish).

Keep in mind this monitor will use `varnishstat` command so the signalfx-agent needs
to be run on the same host as the varnish server.

Also, signalfx-agent should have permission to run this command properly:

```bash
usermod -a -G varnish signalfx-agent
```

For more information check [telegraf official documentation](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs/varnish#permissions)
but do not forget to adapt commands using `signalfx-agent` instead of `telegraf`.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: telegraf/varnish
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.html#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `useSudo` | no | `bool` | If running as a restricted user enable this flag to prepend sudo. (**default:** `false`) |
| `binary` | no | `string` | The location of the varnishstat binary. (**default:** `/usr/bin/varnishstat`) |
| `stats` | no | `list of strings` | Which stats to gather. Glob matching can be used (i.e. `stats = ["MAIN.*"]`). Stats []string `yaml:"stats" default:"[\"MAIN.cache_hit\", \"MAIN.cache_miss\", \"MAIN.uptime\"]"` (**default:** `[MAIN.*]`) |
| `instanceName` | no | `string` | Optional name for the varnish instance to query. It corresponds to `-n` parameter value. |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/admin/subscription-usage/monitor-imm-billing-usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - `varnish.backend_busy` (*cumulative*)<br>    Maximum number of connections to a given backend.
 - `varnish.backend_conn` (*cumulative*)<br>    Successful connections to a given backend.
 - ***`varnish.backend_fail`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Failed connections for a given backend.
 - `varnish.backend_recycle` (*cumulative*)<br>    Backend connections with keep-alive that are returned to the pool of connections.
 - ***`varnish.backend_req`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of requests to the backend.
 - `varnish.backend_reuse` (*cumulative*)<br>    Recycled connections that has were reused.
 - `varnish.backend_toolate` (*cumulative*)<br>    Backend connections closed because they were idle too long.
 - ***`varnish.backend_unhealthy`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Backend connections not tried because the backend was unhealthy.
 - ***`varnish.cache_hit`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Requests served from the cache.
 - `varnish.cache_hitpass` (*cumulative*)<br>    Requests passed to a backend where the decision to pass them found in the cache..
 - ***`varnish.cache_miss`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Requests fetched from a backend server.
 - ***`varnish.client_req`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Good client requests.
 - `varnish.n_lru_nuked` (*cumulative*)<br>    Objects forcefully evicted from the cache because of a lack of space.
 - ***`varnish.sess_dropped`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Sessions dropped due to a full queue.
 - ***`varnish.sess_queued`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Client connections queued to wait for a thread..
 - ***`varnish.thread_queue_len`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Length of session queue waiting for threads.
 - ***`varnish.threads`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of threads in all pools.
 - ***`varnish.threads_created`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of times a thread has been created.
 - ***`varnish.threads_failed`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of times that Varnish unsuccessfully tried to create a thread.
 - ***`varnish.threads_limited`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Threads that were needed but couldn't be created because of a thread pool limit.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

## Dimensions

The following dimensions may occur on metrics emitted by this monitor.  Some
dimensions may be specific to certain metrics.

| Name | Description |
| ---  | ---         |
| `plugin` | The plugin name "telegraf/varnish". |
| `section` | Varnish section ("MAIN", "MGT", "MEMPOOL", "SMA", "VBE", "LCK"). |



