
<!--- Generated by to-integrations-repo script in Smart Agent repo, DO NOT MODIFY HERE --->

### INSTALLATION

This integration is part of the [SignalFx Smart Agent](https://github.com/signalfx/integrations/tree/master/signalfx-agent)[](sfx_link:signalfx-agent)
as the `collectd/cassandra` monitor. You should first deploy the Smart Agent to the
same host as the service you want to monitor, and then continue with the
configuration instructions below.

<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/cassandra

Monitor Type: `collectd/cassandra` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/collectd/cassandra))

**Accepts Endpoints**: **Yes**

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes


## Description

**This integration primarily consists of the Smart Agent monitor `collectd/cassandra`.
Below is an overview of that monitor.**

### Smart Agent Monitor


Monitors Cassandra using the Collectd GenericJMX plugin.  This is
essentially a wrapper around the
[collectd-genericjmx](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/docs/monitors/./collectd-genericjmx.md)[](sfx_link:java) monitor that comes with a
set of predefined MBean definitions that a standard Cassandra deployment
will expose.

Use this integration to monitor the following types of information from Cassandra nodes:

 - read/write/range-slice requests
 - read/write/range-slice errors (timeouts and unavailable)
 - read/write/range-slice latency (median, 99th percentile, maximum)
 - compaction activity
 - hint activity

Supports Cassandra 2.0.10+.


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/cassandra
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/docs/monitors/../monitor-config.md#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `host` | **yes** | `string` | Host to connect to -- JMX must be configured for remote access and accessible from the agent |
| `port` | **yes** | `integer` | JMX connection port (NOT the RMI port) on the application.  This correponds to the `com.sun.management.jmxremote.port` Java property that should be set on the JVM when running the application. |
| `name` | no | `string` |  |
| `serviceName` | no | `string` | This is how the service type is identified in the SignalFx UI so that you can get built-in content for it.  For custom JMX integrations, it can be set to whatever you like and metrics will get the special property `sf_hostHasService` set to this value. |
| `serviceURL` | no | `string` | The JMX connection string.  This is rendered as a Go template and has access to the other values in this config. NOTE: under normal circumstances it is not advised to set this string directly - setting the host and port as specified above is preferred. (**default:** `service:jmx:rmi:///jndi/rmi://{{.Host}}:{{.Port}}/jmxrmi`) |
| `instancePrefix` | no | `string` | Prefixes the generated plugin instance with prefix. If a second `instancePrefix` is specified in a referenced MBean block, the prefix specified in the Connection block will appear at the beginning of the plugin instance, and the prefix specified in the MBean block will be appended to it |
| `username` | no | `string` | Username to authenticate to the server |
| `password` | no | `string` | User password to authenticate to the server |
| `customDimensions` | no | `map of strings` | Takes in key-values pairs of custom dimensions at the connection level. |
| `mBeansToCollect` | no | `list of strings` | A list of the MBeans defined in `mBeanDefinitions` to actually collect. If not provided, then all defined MBeans will be collected. |
| `mBeansToOmit` | no | `list of strings` | A list of the MBeans to omit. This will come handy in cases where only a few MBeans need to omitted from the default list |
| `mBeanDefinitions` | no | `map of objects (see below)` | Specifies how to map JMX MBean values to metrics.  If using a specific service monitor such as cassandra, kafka, or activemq, they come pre-loaded with a set of mappings, and any that you add in this option will be merged with those.  See [collectd GenericJMX](https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd-java.5.shtml#genericjmx_plugin) for more details. |


The **nested** `mBeanDefinitions` config object has the following fields:

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `objectName` | no | `string` | Sets the pattern which is used to retrieve MBeans from the MBeanServer. If more than one MBean is returned you should use the `instanceFrom` option to make the identifiers unique |
| `instancePrefix` | no | `string` | Prefixes the generated plugin instance with prefix |
| `instanceFrom` | no | `list of strings` | The object names used by JMX to identify MBeans include so called "properties" which are basically key-value-pairs. If the given object name is not unique and multiple MBeans are returned, the values of those properties usually differ. You can use this option to build the plugin instance from the appropriate property values. This option is optional and may be repeated to generate the plugin instance from multiple property values |
| `values` | no | `list of objects (see below)` | The `value` blocks map one or more attributes of an MBean to a value list in collectd. There must be at least one `value` block within each MBean block |
| `dimensions` | no | `list of strings` |  |


The **nested** `values` config object has the following fields:

| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `type` | no | `string` | Sets the data set used within collectd to handle the values of the MBean attribute |
| `table` | no | `bool` | Set this to true if the returned attribute is a composite type. If set to true, the keys within the composite type is appended to the type instance. (**default:** `false`) |
| `instancePrefix` | no | `string` | Works like the option of the same name directly beneath the MBean block, but sets the type instance instead |
| `instanceFrom` | no | `list of strings` | Works like the option of the same name directly beneath the MBean block, but sets the type instance instead |
| `attribute` | no | `string` | Sets the name of the attribute from which to read the value. You can access the keys of composite types by using a dot to concatenate the key name to the attribute name. For example: “attrib0.key42”. If `table` is set to true, path must point to a composite type, otherwise it must point to a numeric type. |
| `attributes` | no | `list of strings` | The plural form of the `attribute` config above.  Used to derive multiple metrics from a single MBean. |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.RangeSlice.Latency.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of range slice operations since server start. This typically indicates a server overload condition.

    If this value is increasing across the cluster then the cluster is too small for the application range slice load.

    If this value is increasing for a single server in a cluster, then one of the following conditions may be true:

    - one or more clients are directing more load to this server than the others
    - the server is experiencing hardware or software issues and may require maintenance.

 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.RangeSlice.Timeouts.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of range slice timeouts since server start. This typically indicates a server overload condition.

    If this value is increasing across the cluster then the cluster is too small for the application range slice load.

    If this value is increasing for a single server in a cluster, then one of the following conditions may be true:
    - one or more clients are directing more load to this server than the others
    - the server is experiencing hardware or software issues and may require maintenance.

 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.RangeSlice.Unavailables.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of range slice unavailables since server start. A non-zero value
    means that insufficient replicas were available to fulfil a range slice
    request at the requested consistency level.

    This typically means that one or more nodes are down. To fix this condition,
    any down nodes must be restarted, or removed from the cluster.

 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.Read.Latency.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of read operations since server start
 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.Read.Timeouts.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of read timeouts since server start. This typically indicates a server overload condition.

    If this value is increasing across the cluster then the cluster is too small for the application read load.

    If this value is increasing for a single server in a cluster, then one of the following conditions may be true:
    - one or more clients are directing more load to this server than the others
    - the server is experiencing hardware or software issues and may require maintenance.

 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.Read.Unavailables.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of read unavailables since server start. A non-zero value means
    that insufficient replicas were available to fulfil a read request at
    the requested consistency level. This typically means that one or more
    nodes are down. To fix this condition, any down nodes must be
    restarted, or removed from the cluster.

 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.Write.Latency.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of write operations since server start.
 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.Write.Timeouts.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of write timeouts since server start. This typically indicates a server overload condition.

    If this value is increasing across the cluster then the cluster is too small for the application write load.

    If this value is increasing for a single server in a cluster, then one of the following conditions may be true:
    - one or more clients are directing more load to this server than the others
    - the server is experiencing hardware or software issues and may require maintenance.

 - ***`counter.cassandra.ClientRequest.Write.Unavailables.Count`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Count of write unavailables since server start. A non-zero value means
    that insufficient replicas were available to fulfil a write request at
    the requested consistency level.

    This typically means that one or more nodes are down. To fix this
    condition, any down nodes must be restarted, or removed from the
    cluster.

 - `counter.cassandra.Compaction.TotalCompactionsCompleted.Count` (*cumulative*)<br>    Number of compaction operations since node start. If this value does
    not increase steadily over time then the node may be experiencing
    problems completing compaction operations.

 - `gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.RangeSlice.Latency.50thPercentile` (*gauge*)<br>    50th percentile (median) of Cassandra range slice latency. This value
    should be similar across all nodes in the cluster. If some nodes have higher
    values than the rest of the cluster then they may have more connected clients
    or may be experiencing heavier than usual compaction load.

 - ***`gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.RangeSlice.Latency.99thPercentile`*** (*gauge*)<br>    99th percentile of Cassandra range slice latency. This value should be
    similar across all nodes in the cluster. If some nodes have higher values than
    the rest of the cluster then they may have more connected clients or may be
    experiencing heavier than usual compaction load.

 - `gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.RangeSlice.Latency.Max` (*gauge*)<br>    Maximum Cassandra range slice latency
 - ***`gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.Read.Latency.50thPercentile`*** (*gauge*)<br>    50th percentile (median) of Cassandra read latency. This value should
    be similar across all nodes in the cluster. If some nodes have higher
    values than the rest of the cluster then they may have more connected
    clients or may be experiencing heavier than usual compaction load.

 - ***`gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.Read.Latency.99thPercentile`*** (*gauge*)<br>    99th percentile of Cassandra read latency. This value should be similar
    across all nodes in the cluster. If some nodes have higher values than
    the rest of the cluster then they may have more connected clients or
    may be experiencing heavier than usual compaction load.

 - ***`gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.Read.Latency.Max`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Maximum Cassandra read latency
 - ***`gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.Write.Latency.50thPercentile`*** (*gauge*)<br>    50th percentile (median) of Cassandra write latency. This value should
    be similar across all nodes in the cluster. If some nodes have higher
    values than the rest of the cluster then they may have more connected
    clients or may be experiencing heavier than usual compaction load.

 - ***`gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.Write.Latency.99thPercentile`*** (*gauge*)<br>    99th percentile of Cassandra write latency. This value should be
    similar across all nodes in the cluster. If some nodes have higher
    values than the rest of the cluster then they may have more connected
    clients or may be experiencing heavier than usual compaction load.

 - ***`gauge.cassandra.ClientRequest.Write.Latency.Max`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Maximum Cassandra write latency
 - ***`gauge.cassandra.Compaction.PendingTasks.Value`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of compaction operations waiting to run. If this value is
    continually increasing then the node may be experiencing problems
    completing compaction operations.

 - ***`gauge.cassandra.Storage.Load.Count`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Storage used for Cassandra data in bytes. Use this metric to see how much storage is being used for data by a Cassandra node.

    The value of this metric is influenced by:
    - Total data stored into the database
    - compaction behavior

 - `gauge.cassandra.Storage.TotalHints.Count` (*gauge*)<br>    Total hints since node start. Indicates that write operations cannot be
    delivered to a node, usually because a node is down. If this value is
    increasing and all nodes are up then there may be some connectivity
    issue between nodes in the cluster.

 - ***`gauge.cassandra.Storage.TotalHintsInProgress.Count`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Total pending hints. Indicates that write operations cannot be
    delivered to a node, usually because a node is down. If this value is
    increasing and all nodes are up then there may be some connectivity
    issue between nodes in the cluster.


#### Group jvm
All of the following metrics are part of the `jvm` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `jvm` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - ***`gauge.jvm.threads.count`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of JVM threads
 - ***`gauge.loaded_classes`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Number of classes loaded in the JVM
 - ***`invocations`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Total number of garbage collection events
 - ***`jmx_memory.committed`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of memory guaranteed to be available in bytes
 - ***`jmx_memory.init`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Amount of initial memory at startup in bytes
 - ***`jmx_memory.max`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Maximum amount of memory that can be used in bytes
 - ***`jmx_memory.used`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Current memory usage in bytes
 - ***`total_time_in_ms.collection_time`*** (*cumulative*)<br>    Amount of time spent garbage collecting in milliseconds

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/docs/monitors/../legacy-filtering.md#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/docs/monitors/../legacy-filtering.md#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



